[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
nag Aman Chetty and Charlie stay our
headlines the captain becomes a colonel
on the day he celebrates his 100th
birthday the Queen recognizes captain
Tom Moore's remarkable fundraising
achievements with an honor we've been
proud to be - whoo Wellington's I stood
up and I think to get these really this
that's the icing on the cake it cool is
after raising almost 30 million pounds
he's received birthday wishes from
around the world and from his very proud
family I'm really proud because I've
known my granddad for all my life and
left with him all my life and he's
always been there for us just after 8
o'clock this morning we'll bring you
full coverage of a very special RAF
flyover as the nation pays tribute to
captain Tom Moore Roy Johnson's first
cabinet meeting since leaving hospital
today he's expected to discuss how and
when to ease lockdown restrictions
holiday refund refusals frustrated
customers are turning to their banks and
their credit card providers to get their
money back but will the regulator step
in good morning tributes are paid to
another former England and leisure
knighted defender Trevor cherry who's
passed away suddenly and unexpectedly at
the age of 72 he won the title with
Leeds in 1974 alongside Norman hunter
who passed away earlier this month good
morning it's a changeable day ahead
today many of us have got a window of
dry weather first thing but expect some
heavy showers and some thunderstorms
tube I'll bring you all the details
throughout this morning's program
[Music]
good morning it is Thursday the 30th of
April now his story has captured the
heart of the nation a man who in the
space of a few weeks has gone from
setting out to raise just 1,000 pounds
for the NHS to almost 30 million pounds
we're talking of course about captain
Tom Moore and today is his 100th
birthday throughout the morning would be
paying tribute to him as he celebrates
this milestone John McGuire joins us now
from Captain Tom's home in Marsden more
tain John good to see what a day to
celebrate we met captain Tom Moore on
Good Friday just a few weeks ago and we
are here yeah it's the story that keeps
on giving it's the gift that keeps on
giving but it's all about one man isn't
it captain Tom Moore celebrating a
hundred years on this planet today and
no better way to celebrate than some of
the surprises some of the tributes that
are lined up for him later on over the
next 24 hours or so there's the Walker
just behind me this is the track that
were also familiar with started as a bit
of a family joke really as he said to
give Tom something to do in isolation to
come out to the garden try and do a
hundred laps to mark his hundredth
birthday well that was then this is now
inches to go and there he is
[Music]
congratulations well done when two weeks
ago then captain Tom Moore crossed the
finish line of his challenge to walk a
hundred laps of his garden for NHS
charities it felt like the end of a
journey but oh no since then the money
has continued to fly in he's number one
in the charts holds two Guinness World
Records and has just been made an
honorary colonel
today though another momentous
achievement he's 100 years old his
eldest grandson also named Tom is locked
down in Bristol but told me he's with
his grandfather every step of the way it
has been an inspiration you know and
just what he's doing now is just
incredible
l mean it sums him up really it really
sums him up you know he just can't sit
down he's got to do something even if
it's giving back is brilliant and that
brilliance determination and
selflessness has made him a beacon of
hope in these dark times in honor of his
centenary there'll be a fly past of two
historic planes hurricane and a Spitfire
icons of a bygone age will salute a
fellow war veteran but Colonel Tom is an
icon of today
[Laughter]
while the fundraising page will close at
midnight tonight will it make that magic
figure of 30 million after all remember
the target was only a thousand so it's
already been an extraordinary and
incredible achievement and I had the
honor earlier on in the week to go meet
some of the nhf star NHS staff who this
charitable money is going toward
benefiting them at this extremely
difficult time I want of captain Tom
Colonel Tom's catchphrases throughout
this has always been tomorrow be a good
day I want to tell you what today is
gonna be a pretty good day - that's here
certainly is John looking forward to
being with you throughout the morning
this morning thank you Joe it's lovely
every time we've been over - captain Tom
Moore's house Sun always shines
we have been good morning ticket
irrelevant today yes and I don't know if
you heard John and mention the
fundraising page so we're at something
like 29 million five hundred and
something and pounds so the idea is he
is closing it tonight and he's going to
stop walking as well that's right me to
serve the rest but if it gets got to 30
million pounds would be rather lovely
we'll see that how that unfolds during
the morning they have surprises today
but we know that a sea of birthday cards
for Captain Tom have been put on display
at Bedford school take a look at this no
more than 100,000 of you have spent have
sent your special wishes in amongst
those cards somewhere in there there's a
card from the Duke and Duchess of
Cambridge Dame Kelly Holmes and England
football captain Harry Kane staff
parents pupils have spent hours opening
each card I think there's been like 400
volunteers and they've created this
display in the school's Great Hall and
we spoke to Hannah captain Tom Moore's
daughter not so long ago as she was
reading out some of them some really
beautiful messages in there as well so
we will be spending a bit of time down
there this morning speaking to them some
of those who are very close to this
story also later this morning a Spitfire
and a hurricane will travel from
Lincolnshire to take part in a special
fly past organized in Captain Tom's
honor
we'll be able to watch that here on
breakfast this morning well Alison
Freeman is at RAF Coningsby from where
the planes will take off Alison this is
an exciting day we love a fly pass don't
we and the preparations are underway
tell us all about it yeah it's pretty
exciting I feel quite honored to be here
actually this is the hurricane that you
were just talking about that's going to
be part of that fly past it's going to
leave RAF Coningsby here in Lincolnshire
in the next couple of hours had about
100 miles south to captain Tom's house
where the hurricane and the Spitfire are
going to perform three loops of the
captain's house in his honor now this
hurricane is particularly special it's
part of the Battle of Britain Memorial
Flight and it's won over only around 12
that are still thought to be in
operation across the world now as I say
they're going to carry out three loops
of the captain's house not only to mark
his 100th birthday but obviously in
honor of his fantastic achievements at
raising all those millions of pounds for
the NHS so as I say we'll be bringing
you more in the next couple of hours
Allison thank you very much and because
we'll be with you as those aircraft take
off as well so there'll be a little
later in the morning looking forward
very much to that it is worth saying and
we're going to say this many times this
one the very button that best place to
see the fly pass today will be on
television here on BBC Breakfast people
are not being encouraged to go outdoors
have gathered to watch as you might
normally do because of the circumstances
so it's worth repeating that every time
you will see everything with the best
shots right here on BBC Breakfast it's
eight minutes past 6:00 we need to tell
you about the cabinet it's meeting this
morning to discuss how the coronavirus
lockdown measures may eventually be
lifted well Johnson expected to reveal
some details about when he leads the
daily press conference for the first
time since returning to work he's
unlikely to commit to any timings on the
relaxation of restrictions Don Johnson
reports it's becoming clear our care
homes have endured an undercurrent of
coronavirus deaths previously unseen but
at least now properly countered in the
figures there were another seven hundred
and sixty-five deaths report
across the country in the last 24 hours
with the backdated care home deaths now
included the National total shows more
than 26,000 people have died so far in
this epidemic for weeks care home
managers have pleaded for protective
equipment and called for proper testing
of staff and residents which is now in
place I do think that there is a a
tsunami of deaths that we read probably
we may have been able to avoid should we
have had this testing an awful lot
earlier testings been the watchword
throughout this crisis we have a simple
message for all countries test test test
from the World Health Organization to
the Prime Minister this is how we will
unlock the coronavirus puzzle this is
how we will defeat it in the end there
were targets we will massively scale up
our testing capacity in the weeks ahead
so that we hit 25,000 tests a day then a
new ones I am now setting the goal of
100,000 tests per day by the end of this
month that is the goal and I am
determined that we will get there we've
reached 52,000 still a long way short
and this afternoon we'll hear from the
Prime Minister only back at work this
week and now a new dad he's expected to
give some hint of the way out of the
lockdown were all living under but
alongside a reminder of the government's
own tests that must be met first
dan Johnson BBC news let's be to our
political correspondent leila Nathoo now
in our London newsroom I mean today is a
significant day not least because Boris
Johnson will be we're told in the chair
and will be leading some of these
discussions the cabinet meeting so this
is important day in itself isn't it yes
first time we will have seen boy Johnson
in quite a while at the daily government
briefing and everyone wants to know
exactly when we're going to come down
come out of these current lockdown
measures how that is gonna
in the next phase but I don't think
we're gonna hear much detail from Boris
Johnson on that today what we can expect
to hear is a bit more of the
government's thinking what is going to
go into that decision-making process
what indicators are ministers going to
take account of when they do come to
make those choices now we've already
heard that the government has set five
tests that need to be met before the
lockdown measures can be lifted
including the NHS not being overwhelmed
the death rates coming down the number
of new infections also coming down to
manageable levels and I think we might
hear a little bit more about that this
so-called are number so how many people
does one person with coronavirus go on
to in fact that number needs to be below
one so we might hear a little bit more
about where exactly that figure is but I
think that we can't expect a sort of
grand plan being set out from Boris
Johnson today remember there's been a
lot of pressure on him from conservative
MPs from the opposition Labour Party and
because the devolved governments in
Scotland and Wales have also set out
already they're thinking about the next
phase so I think this is going to go
some way in answering that but remember
there are also pressing issues now for
Boris Johnson to address the serious
situation in care homes as he heard
there also the issue of reliable supply
chains for PPE testing of course so
plenty of questions for Boris Johnson to
answer when we see him at the podium
later okay thanks very much
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch BBC News live in the app and get
the full story with BBC decoder UK
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with BBC News